---
layout: post
title: Suck Less
---

When it comes to learning how to program my goal is simply, to suck just a little bit less everyday.

>"The incremental, tiny satisfactions of being a little bit less awful at something every day...I'm learning an entirely new skill, a very difficult one."

I'm stealing this quote from Anthony Bourdain, a personal hero of mine for various reasons, his witty and morose nature as he travels around the world is appealing to me. His taste in music include [The Stooges, The New York Dolls, and The Brian Jonestown Massacre](http://www.rollingstone.com/movies/news/my-favorite-songs-anthony-bourdain-20140411). So clearly a man of good taste.

But also, like me he has become a brazilian jujitsu addict and that is the skill he is talking about learning. He describes the process of learning the art better than I could, I think.

>"When I go to the gym, inevitably, as happens in jiu-jitsu, you are presented with a series of problems, which chances are, you do not solve [laughs]. When I finish at the gym, I'm thinking for the rest of the day about how I can go in the next day and suck a little bit less than I did today.

For me, I don't really have a goal in mind. I'm just looking to suck a little bit less every few weeks. It's very satisfying when something actually clicks and I can see improvement. When I don't spend an entire hour squashed on the mat, that's very satisfying."

Quite simply, this is how I feel everytime I open up sublime and I hack away at some code. Trying to diligently follow the tutorial or book's example. Frustration usually follows, as I try to figure out where I went wrong and then after lots of googling and breaking the problem down step by step, there's a point where I get something to work. That's where I want to run around the coffee shop where I usually study and high five the hipsters and yoga moms sitting across from me, because I got the damned thing to work like it was supposed to finally. But I don't, because that would be frowned upon, probably.

Also, like jujitsu, the key to improving seems to be doing a little bit everyday. Repetition, over and over. Everytime I go over the same concept, a little bit more sticks. I see the connections and commonalities between what I thought was unrelated when I was a total newbie.

I'm not the most physically gifted person, far from it, in fact I'm probably the least physically gifted athlete at my gym. I would say that out of 10 people that walk onto the mats, 9 of them are taller, stronger, faster, and more agile than I ever will be. But because I've been going for almost 3 years now, 4-5 times a week, I'll be able to beat them or at the very least survive no matter how big or strong they are.

Also, out of 25 people that come to train, only 1 with stick with it longer than six months. Maybe 1 out of 50, will stick around the year or year and a half to get their first promotion to blue belt. Out of those that make it to blue belt, half will quit before they get the next belt (purple).

What separates them? Yes, some just have natural talent, but natural talent will always hit a wall, those who become experts invariable have the deadly mix of natural talent and grit. Mostly grit and the drive to just suck less every day.

And that's me.
I know that the difference between me learning to be a proper developer and the legions wannabe's chasing a check, is that I'll stick with it, long after they've given up. And also, in this field, unlike sports I have an edge, if you put me in a room with 100 people, I may not be the strongest, the tallest or the swiftest, not even close. But I certainly wouldn't be the dumbest, I'd hate to brag but I'd be in the top 10 for sure. Mama didn't raise no fool. 
There's two things you can't teach and that's heart and brains, luckily for me I have both.
