---
layout: post
title: Memorization vs Concepts
---

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zas8pgG_2F4

Kit Dale is jujitsu competitor from Australia who publicly spoke out against the time honored version of drilling in the sport.
The gist is, the way class is typically taught a teacher will teach 3-4 techniques per class, that may or may not be related. You will practice it against a non-resisting partner for 5 minutes and move onto the next move. Then you will spar.

But what will take a long time, will be putting the techniques together. Chaining them, transitioning from them, troubleshooting them, countering the counters. Even if you have the individual pieces, putting them together will take a long time for the average student and no one will be there to explain it. It's very frustrating and I think this is why a lot of people quit, they have trouble grasping the big picture concepts.
You have to develelop your personal algorithm to solve the problems in the sport. It's full of if/else decision making, if your opponent stands 

Kit Dales recommendation is instead of drilling, is to put the student in the position to solve the problem and give them an end goal (winning via submission). How they figure it out, is up to them.

To put it in coding terms, it's the difference between just following tutorial limited in scope vs actually building complete apps. Until I actually tried to do the latter, I had no idea how the pieces fit together. I could explain them to you, but I didn't KNOW how to do it i.e. hand me a blank piece of paper and have write actual code.

I think that's something I'm just beginning to get with coding. The struggle at first was just to learn the syntax of the language, the vocabulary. Now I'm finally starting to get into how to solve problems and further on, the best or simplest way to solve the problem. Some might say, I'm finally able to actually learn how to code. The first part and arguably the hardest part was just learning the the rules and basic technique of the game, now I can actually play the game.

I can feel the difference, because coding challenges/projects are starting to be fun, rather than a chore.
